<div class="cell markdown">

#### How to write Yara rule for Nokoyawa ransomware

</div>

<div class="cell markdown">

  - In the frist, we will work with 3 files that shared by
    [zscaler](https://www.zscaler.com/blogs/security-research/nokoyawa-ransomware-rust-or-bust)

</div>

<div class="cell markdown">

#### Introduction

Nokoyawa is a ransomware family that targets 64-bit Windows systems. It
was first identified in February 2022 and is known for its use of double
extortion tactics, which involve exfiltrating sensitive data from
targeted organizations before encrypting files and demanding a ransom
payment. The initial version of Nokoyawa was written in C programming
language and used Elliptic Curve Cryptography (ECC) with SECT233R1 and
Salsa20 for file encryption. In September 2022, a revised version of
Nokoyawa was released, which was rewritten in Rust programming language
and utilized ECC with Curve25519 and Salsa20 for file encryption. This
new version, known as Nokoyama 2.0, includes a configuration parameter
that can be passed via the command-line, providing threat actors with
greater flexibility at runtime.

</div>

<div class="cell markdown">

#### IOCs

  - [7095beafff5837070a89407c1bf3c6acf8221ed786e0697f6c578d4c3de0efd6](https://www.virustotal.com/gui/file/7095beafff5837070a89407c1bf3c6acf8221ed786e0697f6c578d4c3de0efd6)
  - [47c00ac29bbaee921496ef957adaf5f8b031121ef0607937b003b6ab2a895a12](https://www.virustotal.com/gui/file/47c00ac29bbaee921496ef957adaf5f8b031121ef0607937b003b6ab2a895a12)
  - [259f9ec10642442667a40bf78f03af2fc6d653443cce7062636eb750331657c4](https://www.virustotal.com/gui/file/259f9ec10642442667a40bf78f03af2fc6d653443cce7062636eb750331657c4)

</div>

<div class="cell markdown">

#### Loading sample with IDA pro

</div>

<div class="cell markdown">

I manually write Yara rules by using IDA Pro to load samples and examine
their strings for unique characteristics relevant to a specific family.
From this analysis, I can use the identified strings to craft effective
Yara rules.

</div>

<div class="cell markdown">

##### Strings with IDA

</div>

<div class="cell markdown">

![yara.PNG](ae8d1202-28ee-432b-a15f-6171759ac93e.PNG)

</div>

<div class="cell markdown">

  - "deps\\noko.pdb"
  - "How to run:"
  - "--config <base64 encoded config> (to start full encryption)"
  - "--config <base64 encoded config> --file <filePath>"
  - "CIS lang detected\! Stop working"
  - "config isn't configurated to load hidden drives"
  - "ENCRYPT\_NETWORKYour config isn't configurated to encrypt network
    shares"
  - "Your config isn't configurated to delete shadow copies"
  - "Successfully deleted shadow copies"

</div>

<div class="cell markdown">

By analyzing strings of malware, we can extract relevant strings and use
VirusTotal (if you have a premium account) to test them individually in
order to select appropriate conditions for our rules

</div>

<div class="cell markdown">

We can detect that the file "deps\\noko.pdb" will be present in all
samples because it is a member of the family of pdb files.

  - PDB stands for "Program Database," and it is a file format used by
    Microsoft Visual Studio to store debugging information about a
    program. It contains information about the program's code, data, and
    resources, as well as details about the program's execution. PDB
    files are typically used by developers to debug their programs and
    fix errors. They can also be used by other tools, such as debugger
    programs, to analyze the code and execution of a program. PDB files
    are often associated with the .exe file of a program, and they are
    typically stored in a separate directory or folder.
  - We can use the PDB as a condition for detecting the presence of the
    Nokoyawa family in a sample. If the Yara scan identifies PDB in the
    sample, it will be identified as belonging to the Nokoyawa family.

</div>

<div class="cell markdown">

After testing each string individually, we discovered that the first
four strings were present in three samples, while the remaining strings
were present in only one sample. Based on this information, we can
conclude that the first three strings are except to the PDB string, and
can therefore be used to detect the presence of the three samples.
Therefore, our condition will be as follows: `uint16(0) == 0x5A4D and
($pdb or 3 of ($s*))`

</div>

<div class="cell markdown">

#### [Our YARA rule](https://github.com/MalGamy/YARA_Rules/blob/main/Nokoyawa.yara)

</div>

<div class="cell markdown">

``` css
rule Nokoyawa_ransomware: Nokoyawa
{
    meta:
    description = "Detect_Nokoyawa_ransomware"
    author = "@malgamy12"
    date = "20/12/2022"
    license = "DRL 1.1"
        hash = "7095beafff5837070a89407c1bf3c6acf8221ed786e0697f6c578d4c3de0efd6"
        hash = "47c00ac29bbaee921496ef957adaf5f8b031121ef0607937b003b6ab2a895a12"
        hash = "259f9ec10642442667a40bf78f03af2fc6d653443cce7062636eb750331657c4"
  
                
    strings:
        
        $pdb = "deps\\noko.pdb" ascii
        $s1 = "How to run:" ascii
        $s2 = "--config <base64 encoded config> (to start full encryption)" ascii
        $s3 = "--config <base64 encoded config> --file <filePath>" ascii
        $s4 = "CIS lang detected! Stop working" ascii
        $s5 = "config isn't configurated to load hidden drives" ascii
        $s6 = "ENCRYPT_NETWORKYour config isn't configurated to encrypt network shares" ascii
        $s7 = "Your config isn't configurated to delete shadow copies" ascii
        $s8 = "Successfully deleted shadow copies from" ascii
        
    condition:
        uint16(0) == 0x5A4D and ($pdb or 3 of ($s*))
}
```

</div>

<div class="cell markdown">

#### Testing

</div>

<div class="cell markdown">

![yara2.PNG](96b66794-873f-4cc0-8d56-042bf8635d6c.PNG)

</div>

<div class="cell markdown">

As depicted in the preceding figure, it appears that our condition is
functioning as intended. After conducting testing, we can confidently
assert that our rules are effective on our sample set.

</div>

<div class="cell markdown">

#### [Hunting](https://www.hybrid-analysis.com/yara-search)

</div>

<div class="cell markdown">

![yara3.PNG](4598bbae-bf4d-44c2-b6bc-34488fc2023f.PNG)

</div>

<div class="cell markdown">

From the previous figure, we can see the results of our rules
![yara4.PNG](4125b1d2-bcdd-4c30-a2d2-2c0b7710e5a5.PNG)

</div>

<div class="cell markdown">

Thanks a lot for reading. You can find me into the following links

  - [Twitter](https://twitter.com/MalGamy12)
  - [Linkedin](https://www.linkedin.com/in/gameel-ali-8041161bb/)
  - [Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCdhYL47wLxxKOyaRsk4Moaw)
  - [Github](https://github.com/MalGamy)

</div>
